docs: add instructions for first boot tui (#2141)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/edge/site-deployment/initial-setup.md

---
sidebar_label: "Initial Edge Host Configuration"
title: "Initial Edge Host Configuration"
description: "Instructions for configuring the Edge host when booting up the Edge host for the first time."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 32
tags: ["edge"]
---

When you boot up an Edge host for the first time after installation, you will be prompted to configure the Edge host and its network environment. You may already have specified some of these
configurations in the **user-data** file in the EdgeForge process or have supplied them with site-specific

> **user-data**, and can either keep them as they are or update them during this step. For more information about

Reviewer: @lennessyy maybe it's me but the sentence that starts with "You may already was a bit tricky to read.  It might be easier to read if we break into two sentences.

EdgeForge and site user data, refer to [EdgeForge Workflow](../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md) and
[Apply Site User Data](./site-installation/site-user-data.md).

## Prerequisite

> - An Edge host with Palette Edge 4.3 or later. The Edge host must be booting up for the first time since installation.

Reviewer: @lennessyy I forgot to add this comment 🤦🏻  I think you mean the Edge Installer. That's what we have referred to the installer in the past.

---
sidebar_label: "Initial Edge Host Configuration"
title: "Initial Edge Host Configuration"
description: "Instructions for configuring the Edge host when booting up the Edge host for the first time."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 32
tags: ["edge"]
---

> When you boot up an Edge host for the first time after installation, you will be prompted to enter several
> configurations for the Edge host and its network environment. You may already have specified some of these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you boot up an Edge host for the first time after installation, you will be prompted to configure the Edge host and its network environment. You may already have specified some of these
```

Reviewer 2: I would simplify the language here and make it more action-oriented: you're prompted to enter a configuration vs. you're prompted to configure

> configurations for the Edge host and its network environment. You may already have specified some of these
> configurations in the **user-data** file in the EdgeForge process or have supplied them with site-specific

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configurations for the Edge host and its network environment. You may have already configured some of these details in the **user-data** file in the EdgeForge process or have supplied them with site-specific
```

> configurations in the **user-data** file in the EdgeForge process or have supplied them with site-specific

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configurations in the **user-data** file in the EdgeForge process or have supplied them through a site-specific
```

**user-data**, and can either keep them as they are or update them during this step. For more information about
EdgeForge and site user data, refer to [EdgeForge Workflow](../edgeforge-workflow/edgeforge-workflow.md) and
[Apply Site User Data](./site-installation/site-user-data.md).

## Prerequisite

- An Edge host with Palette Edge 4.3 or later. The Edge host must be booting up for the first time since installation.

- A keyboard or another input device connected to the Edge host.

## Set up Edge Host

1. Power up the Edge host. Do not make any input and allow Palette to choose the boot option automatically.

2. A terminal user interface will display a **Create User** page. This allows you to create a Linux user with the

>    necessary permissions to operate Palette. Enter a username-password pair to create a new user and hit the Enter key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   necessary permissions to operate Palette. Enter a username and password to create a new user and press the Enter key
```

Reviewer 2: These feel like jargon, so I'd opt for the more standard language :)

   to progress to the next screen.

>    You may have already created a user in your **user-data** file. If so, you cannot use the same username.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit unclear 🤔 If they already created a user, why do they need to create another one? What I don't fully get here is the difference between the user they created in `user-data` and the one they're creating now, especially because in the intro we're saying that you could preserve or update the `user-data` config.

Author: There is no difference, but they are just forced to create one right now again. I have not found a way to progress past the screen if they don't make a new user. I am also confirming this behavior with the engineer

3. Next, the terminal will display a console for you to provide hostname and network configurations to the Edge host.

   ![A terminal user interface showing displaying network configuration options](/cluster_edge_site-deployment_installation_initial-setup_tui.png)

>    Check the existing hostname and, optionally, change it to a new one.

Reviewer 2: Are there any specific conditions where they should change the hostname? As in, what are the conditions for optionality here?

Author: The host name is really just like a username. If they want to change it to another name, they can.

4. In **Network Adapters**, choose a network adapter that the Edge host will use to communicate with Palette.

   By default, the network adapter requests an IP automatically from the DHCP server. Optionally, you can also specify

>    an static IP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   a static IP.
```

Reviewer 2: The same questions here: what are the conditions to optionality and are there any cases we could suggest as a reason to go with a static IP?

5. In **DNS Configuration**, specify the IP address of the primary and secondary name servers.

> 6. After you are satisfied with the configurations, navigate to **Quit** and hit enter to finish configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. After you are satisfied with the configuration, navigate to **Quit** and hit enter to finish configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: Should they use the arrow keys to navigate here?

## Validate

> 1. Shortly after you finish configuration, the terminal screen will display the hostname and network information of your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Shortly after you finish the configuration, the terminal screen will display the hostname and network information of your
```

   Edge host.

> 2. Verify that all displayed information is consistent with your configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Verify that all displayed information is consistent with your configuration.
```
